now to the Middle East and Palestinians
have begun marking rabadan the Islamic
month of fasting while Fierce battles
continue between Israeli forces at Hamas
fighters in Gaza Let's cross live to
Jerusalem and join my colleague Anna
Foster
Anna Samantha thank you good morning
welcome to uh Damascus gate in the city
walls here in East Jerusalem where
people uh have begun marking the first
day of Ramadan you can see people moving
around this is one of the places that in
East Jerusalem that Palestinians often
come at this time of year but of course
many
of
because humanitarian ceasefire could be
reached by the beginning of Ramadan but
that hasn't happened even though
channels of communication still remain
open and this is of course the holiest
month in the Islamic calendar it's where
Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset
normally of course breaking that fast
with an ifar meal at the end of the day
but in Gaza it's going to be a very
different Ramadan this time round the
United Nations have warned of potential
Mass starvation there they say that 25%
of the population are at risk of mass
starvation at the moment and they say
the Hamas ran Health Ministry in Gaza
says that 23 people have died so far of
malnutrition and they say that the
majority of those are children now I
just want to show you these pictures
from Al Moi in eastern Gaza and this was
people last night marking uh trying to
Mark at least as best they could the
beginning of uh Ramadan you can see the
little traditional lanterns there
singing their songs and really doing
what they could to mark this holy time
during a time of
War we forc every Ramadan and we put up
decorations five or six days before it
starts we used to be able to get cheese
and dairy and filled our fridges with
food for the sunset ifar and the sunrise
ofo meals with meat but now we can't
even break our fast with a can of peas
or beans since we can't find any in the
first place with thanks to God even with
our empty bellies we will Fast to
satisfy our
Lord we talked about the fighting still
continuing and the fact that that
humanitarian ceasefire has not been
achieved by now and in fact even just in
the last day or two we've seen the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu responding to
comments found invasion of Rafa right at
the southern end of the strip where more
than a million Palestinians are now
Sheltering and Mr Netanyahu said that
that that Invasion would still happen uh
he didn't give a
Time achieve Israel's stated aim his
stated aim of trying to remove Hamas
fully from Gaza there's also an aid ship
that's uh on the way now again we've
talked in the last few days about
attempts to try and get Aid into Gaza by
sea there's a ship in Cyprus which is
due to inaugurate this new Maritime Aid
Corridor between Cyprus and Gaza which
has been established by by the EU the UK
us and others that ship still in ports
in lanica in Cypress at the moment it's
been loaded over the last few days we
were told it was due to set off over the
weekend but seems to have uh met delays
and is still in Port at the moment but
let's talk a little more about those
attempts to get that badly needed Aid to
civilians in Gaza who need it I'm joined
by Dr
Sarah you for joining us here on BBC
News what's your assessment of the way
that is getting into Gaza at the moment
clearly not enough how could and should
it be more
efficient absolutely we are far from
enough eight so eight agencies estimate
that we would need about 600 trucks a
day to cross into Gaza for sufficient
supplies in February it was about 100
trucks a day so very very far from what
is needed for food medical items but
also shelter items tents tarps and so on
so there is very very high need and
we've seen different attempts now to
meet this need we've seen some air drops
first from the Jordanian Air Force but
now also the American Air Force those
look good yes absolutely and they are
obviously helping but they are very very
small volume if you're comparing it to
what is actually needed so bringing in 8
by C sounds great because that vessel
that's currently in Cyprus is carrying
about 200 tons of materials so that
would be very much needed but it is also
then plagued with the same issues of
onward transport a okay you're docking
that ship somewhere but how is the aid
actually going to reach people and that
is a much larger
issue it's interesting what you were
saying there just little things I
noticed you're saying about things that
look good or sound great but don't
necessarily provide the volume of Aid
needed seemingly the best way to do that
is to go back to the way that things
were before the war and to allow Aid in
by road but just remind us why that
isn't
happening definitely bringing in by road
is the most efficient way of doing this
but at the moment we only have two
border crossings that are open both in
the south of Gaza and they are quite
Limited in what is being let through you
need to have permission to bring Goods
across and for some Goods that
permission is being with help from with
the uh by the Israeli authorities and of
course it's then also a question of
getting it across there's lots of checks
on the goods and then also the
distribution within Gaza has been very
difficult because of course the
infrastructure has been being destroyed
the people are not there Communications
are very very difficult internet
availability in Gaza is quite touch and
go it's not there very often and it is
very very dangerous situation as well we
saw that a little while ago with people
being shot who were receiving aid it is
an extremely difficult environment to
try and distribute Aid in Road would be
best and Road will be the onward
transportation for no matter how we get
eight into Gaza but it is extremely
challenging at the moment
[Music]
we've heard uh world leaders pushing
repeatedly for what they call a
humanitarian ceasefire how would that
change the picture on the ground in
terms of actually getting that Aid
in the ability to travel more freely
within Gaza and to be able to access
areas and not be shot at that will of
course be a huge difference and it also
makes difference to people receiving the
aid if they are able to go towards where
convoys are going without fear of being
at the receiving end of air strikes of
bullets so it would make a huge
difference here to have the ceasefire
also to just be able to access different
areas of Gaza it's been very very
difficult to get anything into the north
of Gaza so that's been a real big worry
for eight agencies the south of Gaza is
also very difficult because so many
people are compacted into a very very
small area so it's quite difficult to
reach them and to make sure that it's
not just a strongest people who are
getting aid but everybody who needs it
can receive it so a ceasefire would help
immens ly to get Aid to people who so
desperately need
it Dr Sarah shling thank you for joining
is appreciate your time here on BBC News
it is a a beautiful morning here in East
Jerusalem very peaceful at the moment
different scenes to some of the videos
we uh started to see circulating on
social media last night inside the old
city there and the uh the the channels
that lead towards the alaxa mosque
compound we saw some scuffles between
security forces and and younger
Palestinians who were trying to get in
there to to pray uh much more to come
from here in East Jerusalem uh
throughout the day here on BBC News but
for now it's back to samanther in London
Anna thank you